amongst the coral reefs of the Indo
Pacific an amazing thing happens gender
jumping
many kinds of fish such as these small
anthias begin life as females and switch
sexes when the time is right
only a few of the biggest females
transform into males like this one with
a yellow chin they get the best of both
worlds as young females they avoid
competition and regularly spawn
those that change into males have the
added bonus of fathering the offspring
of a coterie of wives
this is the born-again male of another
kind of anthias
like the others he originally had a set
of ovaries now he sports a pair of
testes and a harem of yellow eyed
females
he constantly chippies them and somehow
his bullying tactics prevent them from
jumping gender
only when he disappears will the largest
of his wives change sex and take his
place why more animals don't do this is
a mystery